**Lab 10 – Govern data in Microsoft Fabric with Purview**

**Exercise 1 – Setting up your business domains**

To create business domains, glossary terms, define CDEs, and establish
OKRs follow the given steps.

1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings** \> **Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Modeling your data estate**,
    select the play button near **Set up business domains**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image4.png)

7.  If prompted to **Setup Business Domains**, select **Let’s go!**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image5.png)

8.  Select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image6.png)

9.  Select **Roles and permissions**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image7.png)

10. Select **Business Domain Creators**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image8.png)

11. Follow the rest of the click through tutorial and complete the
    exercise. Once the permissions are completed, select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image9.png)

12. On the **Create a Business Domain prompt**, select **Next**.

13. Follow the rest of the click through tutorial and complete the
    exercise. You can hover on the blue dots to get the tooltips
    activated for more information on each step.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image10.png)

14. Once the business domain is created, select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image11.png)

15. Next you will be guided through the different properties on the
    business domain page.

16. Follow the click through tutorial and complete the exercise to
    create glossary terms for your business domain.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image12.png)

17. Once the term is created, follow the steps to create and manage
    policies on the term page.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image13.png)

18. Follow the click through tutorial and complete the exercise to
    create OKRs for your business domain.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image14.png)

19. Once the OKR is created select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image15.png)

20. You will be able to create **Critical data elements**. Follow the
    tooltips to create Critical data elements.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image16.png)

21. On **The Business Domain is Setup** step, select **Next**.

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to set up a business
domain in Data catalog in Microsoft Purview.

**Exercise 2 – Federating your data governance**

**Task 1 – Setting up and registering your data**

To build out data map, register and scan data, follow the given steps.

1.  1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings \> Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Federating your data
    governance**, select the play button near **Set up and register your
    data**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image17.png)

7.  On the On the **Collect your data asset inventory with automated
    scans** prompt, select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image18.png)

8.  Follow the guided steps to complete the tutorial.

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to set up and
register your data in Data maps in Microsoft Purview.

**Task 2 – Publishing data products**

Follow the given steps to attach data assets, build context connections,
and manage policies.

1.  1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings \> Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Federating your data
    governance**, select the play button near **Publish data products**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image19.png)

7.  On the **Publish Data Products** prompt, select **Let’s get
    started!**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image20.png)

8.  Follow the guided steps to complete the tutorial.

9.  Once the data product is published, select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image21.png)

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to publish data
products in Data catalog in Microsoft Purview.

**Task 3 – Setting up data quality**

Follow the given steps to define connections, create data quality rules,
profile data, and schedule scans.

1.  1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings \> Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Federating your data
    governance**, select the play button near **Set up data quality**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image22.png)

7.  On the **Run Data Quality** prompt, select **Next**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image23.png)

8.  Follow the guided steps to complete the tutorial.

9.  Once the Data Quality has been added to the asset, select **Next**,
    to complete **Data Quality with Continuous Monitoring**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image24.png)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image25.png)

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to empower users in
Data catalog in Microsoft Purview.

**Task 4 – Managing data health**

Follow the given steps to manage and customize data health controls, and
to set action severity.

1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings \> Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Federating your data
    governance**, select the play button near **Manage data health**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image26.png)

7.  On the **Data Estate Health** prompt, select **Learn more about data
    health**.

8.  Follow the guided steps to complete the tutorial.

9.  Select **Next**, on the **Now the controls are built to your company
    standards** Prompt.

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to manage data in
Data catalog in Microsoft Purview.

**Exercise 3 – Empowering Users**

To Manage data access, explore and search for data and request access,
follow the given steps.

1.  1.  Open the https://app.powerbi.com/.

2.  Sign in to the Power BI portal using the admin credentials provided
    with your lab environment.

3.  Select **Settings \> Microsoft Purview hub (preview)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image1.png)

4.  Select **Data Catalog**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

5.  You will be redirected to the new Microsoft Purview portal. If
    asked, agree to the terms and conditions and select **Get started**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

6.  Under **Getting started tutorial** \> **Empowering Users**, select
    the play button near **Democratize data**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image27.png)

7.  On the **Democratize Data to Your Organization** prompt,
    select **See how to discover data**.

8.  Follow the guided steps to complete the tutorial.

9.  Select **Next**, on the **Responsible Democratization of Data
    Complete** prompt.

Congratulations! You have successfully learned how to govern data in
Data catalog in Microsoft Purview.
